1. _To make_ VERMICELLY SOOP.

Take a neck of beef, or any other piece; cut off some slices, and fry
them with butter 'till they are very brown; wash your pan out every
time with a little of the gravy; you may broil a few slices of the beef
upon a grid-iron: put all together into a pot, with a large onion, a
little salt, and a little whole pepper; let it stew 'till the meat is
tender, and skim off the fat in the boiling; them strain it into your
dish, and boil four ounces of vermicelly in a little of the gravy 'till
it is soft: Add a little stew'd spinage; then put all together into a
dish, with toasts of bread; laying a little vermicelly upon the toast.
Garnish your dish with creed rice and boil'd spinage, or carrots slic'd
thin.


2. CUCUMBER SOOP.

Take a houghil of beef, break it small and put it into a stew-pan, with
part of a neck of mutton, a little whole pepper, an onion, and a little
salt; cover it with water, and let it stand in the oven all night, then
strain it and take off the fat; pare six or eight middle-siz'd
cucumbers, and slice them not very thin, stew them in a little butter
and a little whole pepper; take them out of the butter and put 'em in
the gravy. Garnish your dish with raspings of bread, and serve it up
with toasts of bread or _French_ roll.


3. _To make_ HARE SOOP.

Cut the hare into small pieces, wash it and put it into a stew-pan,
with a knuckle of veal; put in it a gallon of water, a little salt, and
a handful of sweet herbs; let it stew 'till the gravy be good; fry a
little of the hare to brown the soop; you may put in it some crusts of
write bread among the meat to thicken the soop; put it into a dish,
with a little stew'd spinage, crisp'd bread, and a few forc'd-meat
balls. Garnish your dish with boil'd spinage and turnips, cut it in
thin square slices.


4. _To make Green_ PEASE SOOP.

Take a neck of mutton, and a knuckle of veal, make of them a little
good gravy; then take half a peck of the greenest young peas, boil and
beat them to a pulp in a marble mortar; then put to them a little of
the gravy; strain them through a hair sieve to take out all the pulp;
put all together, with a little salt and whole pepper; then boil it a
little, and if you think the soop not green enough, boil a handful of
spinage very tender, rub it through a hair-sieve, and put into the soop
with one spoonful of wheat-flour, to keep it from running: You must not
let it boil after the spinage is put in, it will discolour it; then cut
white bread in little diamonds, fry them in butter while crisp, and put
it into a dish, with a few whole peas. Garnish your dish with creed
rice, and red beet-root.

You may make asparagus-soop the same way, only add tops of asparagus,
instead of whole pease.


5. _To make_ ONION SOOP.

Take four or five large onions, pill and boil them in milk and water
whilst tender, (shifting them two or three times in the boiling) beat
'em in a marble mortar to a pulp, and rub them thro' a hair-sieve, and
put them into a little sweet gravy; then fry a few slices of veal, and
two or three slices of lean bacon; beat them in a marble mortar as
small as forc'd-meat; put it into your stew-pan with the gravy and
onions, and boil them; mix a spoonful of wheat-flour with a little
water, and put it into the soop to keep it from running; strain all
through a cullender, season it to your taste; then put into the dish a
little spinage stew'd in butter, and a little crisp bread; so serve it
up.


6. _Common_ PEASE SOOP _in Winter_.

Take a quart of good boiling pease which put into a pot with a gallon
of soft water whilst cold; add thereto a little beef or mutton, a
little hung beef or bacon, and two or three large onions; boil all
together while your soop is thick; salt it to your taste, and thicken
it with a little wheat-flour; strain it thro' a cullender, boil a
little sellery, cut it in small pieces, with a little crisp bread, and
crisp a little spinage, as you would do parsley, then put it in a dish,
and serve it up. Garnish your dish with raspings of bread.


7. _To make_ PEASE SOOP _in Lent_.

Take a quart of pease, put them into a pot with a gallon of water, two
or three large onions, half a dozen anchovies, a little whole pepper
and salt; boil all together whilst your soop is thick; strain it into a
stew-pan through a cullender, and put six ounces of butter (work'd in
flour) into the soop to thicken it; also put in a little boil'd
sellery, stew'd spinage, crisp bread, and a little dry'd mint powdered;
so serve it up.


8. CRAW-FISH SOOP.

Take a knuckle of veal, and part of a neck of mutton to make white
gravy, putting in an onion, a little whole pepper and salt to your
taste; then take twenty crawfish, boil and beat them in a marble
mortar, adding thereto alittlee of the gravy; strain them and put them
into the gravy; also two or three pieces of white bread to thicken the
soop; boil twelve or fourteen of the smallest craw-fish, and put them
whole into the dish, with a few toasts, or _French_ roll, which you
please; so serve it up.

You may make lobster soop the same way, only add into the soop the
seeds of the lobster.


9. _To make_ SCOTCH SOOP.

Take a houghil of beef, cut it in pieces, with part of a neck of
mutton, and a pound of _French_ barley; put them all into your pot,
with six quarts of water; let it boil 'till the barley be soft, then
put in a fowl; as soon as 'tis enough put in a handful of red beet
leaves or brocoli, a handful of the blades of onions, a handful of
spinage, washed and shred very small; only let them have a little boil,
else it will spoil the greenness. Serve it up with the fowl in a dish,
garnish'd with raspings of bread.


10. _To make_ SOOP _without Water_.

Take a small leg of mutton, cut it in slices, season it with a little
pepper and salt; cut three middling turnips in round pieces, and three
small carrots scrap'd and cut in pieces, a handful of spinage, a little
parsley, a bunch of sweet herbs, and two or three cabbage lettice; cut
the herbs pretty small, lay a row of meat and a row of herbs; put the
turnips and carrots at the bottom of the pot, with an onion, lay at the
top half a pound of sweet butter, and close up the pot with coarse
paste; them put the pot into boiling water, and let it boil for four
hours; or in a slow oven, and let it stand all night; when it is enough
drain the gravy from the meat, skim off the fat, then put it into your
dish with some toasts of bread, and a little stew'd spinage; to serve
it up.
